Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn the logical operators in C
So the logical operators are used to
perform logical operations in C.
We have three logical operators the logical OR operator
the logical AND operator and the logical NOT operator
And these are denoted using these symbols. for
logical OR
We have a double vertical bar and for AND we
have a double ampersand and for NOT we have an
exclamation mark. Let us see the logical OR. so it will
do the same operation of an OR gate. So what happens
in an OR gate ?If you have both the input
zero then the output is also zero
If you have at least one input 1 then
the result is 1. So see when you have
a=0 b=0 then a or b = 0
So the bulb is not glowing
And if we have a=0 and b=1
one then a OR b= 1
so the bulb glows and if
you have a=1 b=0 then
also a or b = 1 and bulb will
glow and if you have a=1
b=1 then also a or b =1
So the functionality is that if you have all the
inputs zero then the result is zero
And if you have at least one input 1 then
the result is 1
Now let's see the logical AND operation and it has
the same function of an AND gate
And if you have two inputs A and B here
and if a=0 and b=0 then
a AND b is also zero
And if you have a=0 b=1
then also a AND b = 0 so the
bulb will not glow
And if you have a=1 and b=0
then also bulb won't glow since a AND b
equal to zero Next
If you have a=1 and b=1
then a AND b also equal to one so the
bulb will glow
So this is a functionality of AND. if we have
all the inputs equal to one then only the result
is one and if we have at least one 0,
result become zero. And now let us discuss about logical
NOT and it works as a NOT gate
Or we can call it the inverter because whatever input
you give the NOT gate will invert it
See if you have a = 0 the bulb is
glowing since the output has become one
And if you have a=1 then the bulb
won't glow since NOT gate would have inverted the input
and we will get zero
So that is NOT operator
And now let us see a programme
And here we have the main function and we are
declaring three integer
variables a b and ret and we are initialising
a to 5 and b to 10
Next we have this statement
ret = ( (a <= b) or (a != b) );
We have expression1 OR expression2
So what is the functionality of OR? if you have
at least one expression true then the result is true
So a<=b is true
since 5<10
So this OR operator returns a TRUE or 1 and
it will be stored to the integer variable ret
and next is a printf function so it will print
return
Value of about expression is 1. Next we have the
statement ret = ( ( a < b) && (a == b ) );
So we have expression1 AND expression2
So what is the functionality of AND? if we have
both the inputs or expressions true then only the result
is true
So here first expression a<b is true since
5 less than 10
Next expression a==b is false
since five
is not equal to 10 so AND operator will return
false or zero and it will be stored to ret
and next is a printf function
So it will print return value of above expression
is zero
Next we have the statement
ret equal to not of a less than b && a == b; so we
have not of expression1 and expression2
And what is the functionality of AND, if you have
all the inputs or expressions true, then the result is
true
Here we got 5<10 which is true
and five= 10 which is false
So the AND operator returns zero and we got
not of zero
So what does NOT operator do? It will invert
The input
So this zero becomes one and that will be stored
in the variable ret
And next we have the printf function and it will print
return value of about expression
is one
So that's all and thank watching this video